#summary Instructions to translate My Tracks to a new language.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Target Users =

This is meant for users who are looking to translate My Tracks to a new language, or update an existing translation.

= Strings files =

Android puts all strings used by the application in XML files in the [http://code.google.com/p/mytracks/source/browse/#hg/MyTracks/res/values res/values directory] - more specifically, the strings.xml and arrays.xml files. To translate it to a new language, you simply make a copy of those two files for the language, change all the strings, such as:

{{{
<string name="start_recording">Record track</string>
}}}

becomes

{{{
<string name="start_recording">Gravar trilha</string>
}}}

for Portuguese.

All strings which are not going to be translated (those marked with "DO NOT TRANSLATE") should be removed from the translated file - Android will find them in the main (English) file.  Do not copy the colors.xlm in the res/values directory.

= Sending changes =

There are basically two ways to do that, depending on your level of expertise: one of them is to send the files back to the My Tracks development team (e.g. by opening a feature request and attaching the files, or e-mailing them to the development mailing list.

If you have some familiarity with version control systems, though, you can read our [DevelopmentProcess development process], then use it for making changes to files in the res subdirectory, and request a regular code review. If you're adding a new language, then your copy of the XML files will go into res/values-XX, where XX is the two-letter code for the language in question, such as "values-de" for German. If the language in question is regionalized, then the format becomes "values-XX-rYY", such as "values-pt-rBR" for Brazilian Portuguese.

= References =

[http://developer.android.com/intl/de/guide/topics/resources/localization.html Localization in Android]