#summary How to use MyTracks with Fusion Tables

= Introduction =

With the retirement of the MyMaps API, we've switched to using Fusion Tables for online storage of your tracks.  The Fusion Tables user interface is different than the MyMaps interface, so we've created this page to help you use Fusion Tables effectively with your MyTracks data.

Before we dive in, it's worth mentioning that Fusion Tables can do just about anything that MyMaps could.  There's one important thing that it can do that MyMaps couldn't: When Fusion Tables renders a track, it displays *the entire track*.  This is different from MyMaps, which breaks the track up into pages, and only displays a page worth at a time.

Like MyMaps, the Fusion Tables user interface can be used to share links to maps, download KML files, get links to Google-hosted KML files, and to get embedding-ready iframes for use in blogs and other websites.

== To view a track ==

=== As the track owner ===

Go to http://google.com/fusiontables, where you'll see a list of your tracks (Fusion Tables calls them tables).  Click the track/table name.  You'll be taken to a screen which shows the rows in your table.  Open the Visualize menu and select Map.

=== To share with someone else ===

  * *As a link* Click the 'Get link' button in the top right corner of the page.  The generated link will preserve whatever zooming and panning you've done.
  * *As an iframe for embedding* Click 'Get embeddable link' above the map.
  * *As KML* You can either download a KML file using the 'Export to KML' link, or get a URL to a Google-hosted KML file using the 'Get KML network link' link.

=== To see track statistics ===

When you view the track as a map, you'll see a red dot at the end of the route.  Click that dot, and a bubble will appear.  In that bubble will be the stats for the ride, as well as an elevation chart.

== To export a track ==

=== Exporting tracks to MyMaps ===

  * Open the Fusion Table, then choose 'Map' under the 'Visualize' menu.
  * Above the map is an option called 'Get KML network link'. Copy that link.
  * Go to Google Maps.  Click the My Maps link.
  * Click Create a new map.
  * Click Import.
  * Paste the KML link into the dialog box.

= Something to add? =

If you'd like to add something to this page, please do one of the following, in order of preference:
  # Take a clone of http://code.google.com/p/mytracks/source/checkout?repo=wiki, and send us patches in the usual way.
  # File an issue using http://code.google.com/p/mytracks/issues/entry
  # Add a comment to this page.